# Flowable Initializr Template Changelog

This file is a changelog for the template used by the Flowable Initializr to create this projects.
It contains information about template changes made in the past for better traceability. Versions
mentioned in this file refer to the template itself and are not represented withing the any project
generated by the Flowable Initializr.

It is totally safe and intended that this file will be deleted after project generation.

## Change Log

### 0.15.3
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.15.3
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 3.1.9

### 0.15.2
- Replaced deprecated (and now finally removed) `spring.elasticsearch.rest.uris` property with `spring.elasticsearch.uris` in docker-compose.yml.
- Replaced deprecated (and now finally removed) `management.metrics.export.elastic.enabled` property with `management.elastic.metrics.export.enabled` in docker-compose.yml.
- Replaced deprecated (and now finally removed) `logging.file` property with `logging.file.name` in docker-compose.yml.

### 0.15.1
- Fixed the license file mapping location for Docker Compose (this changed with thew new non-root-user images).

### 0.15.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.15.0
- Upgrade to Java 17
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 3.1.6
- Upgrade to Elasticsearch 8.11.2
- Upgrade to Postgres 16
- Removed Design Angular from the code base (even if still supported for 3.15)
- Updated README.md with documentation about removing Angular Flowable Design.
- Updated SecurityConfiguration for Flowable Work/Design 3.15.0
- Updated SecurityActuatorConfiguration for Flowable Work/Design 3.15.0
- Fixed infraless application.properties namespaces (management.elastic)

### 0.14.2
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.14.4
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.18
- Added password properties to Work/Design/Control application.properties files to encourage users to change them.

### 0.14.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.14.1
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.14

### 0.14.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.14.0
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.13
- Changed Angular Design palette dependencies from -legacy to -angular

### 0.14.0.RC1.1
- Renamed design-legacy to design-angular to stick to the suggested naming convention.
- Added warning message to README.md about design and design-angular sharing the same DB schema.

### 0.14.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.14.0.RC1
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.12
- Updated documentation to use `docker compose` instead of `docker-compose` command.
- Updated namespace for Flowable Design properties.
- Added SecurityConfiguration and SecurityActuatorConfiguration classes for new Flowable Design.
- Added flowable-spring-boot-starter-design-actuator dependency for new Flowable Design.
- Added new maven submodule representing the angular version of Flowable Design (running on port 8093).
- Updated README.md with documentation about angular Flowable Design.
- Removed redundant spring.database.username and .password from application-infraless.properties

### 0.13.5
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.13.2

### 0.13.4
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.13.1
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.8
- Re-added the micrometer elasticsearch registry dependency that is not part of the Spring Boot Starter anymore. (see https://documentation.flowable.com/latest/admin/release-notes/3.13.0-release/#upgrade-information)

### 0.13.3
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.13.0
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.6

### 0.13.1
- Updated the `SecurityConfiguration` to get rid of deprecated `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`.
- Updated the `SecurityActuatorConfiguration` to get rid of deprecated `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`.
- Removed the `StaticResourceConfiguration` as it is not needed anymore.

### 0.13.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.13.0.RC1
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.5

### 0.12.3
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.12.4

### 0.12.2
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.12.3
- Added deprecation suppress warning annotation to SecurityActuatorConfiguration
- Infraless H2 database is now stored within the project (`h2-database` directory) instead of the users profile.

### 0.12.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.12.2
- Readded missing maven-wrapper.properties

### 0.12.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.12.0
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.2
- Upgrade to Elasticsearch 7.17.5
- Updated SecurityConfiguration
- Updated docker compose file to use heathcheck/depends_on to enforce service start order and timing

### 0.11.8
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.11.7

### 0.11.7
- Added maven wrapper
- Removed Flowable maven repo from parent pom.xml and added it to settings-flowable.xml
- Updated test to work elastic-less and FlowableSpringExtension

### 0.11.6
- Changed `training` profile to `infraless` (also in Readme)

### 0.11.5
- Removed custom tenant, filter and user definitions - instead added the default-idm-models dependency
- Added `flowable.platform.idm.minimal-setup=true` property (commented so sample Engage users get created)
- Added application-training.properties file for Flowable Academy (Embedded H2 DB, Elastic-less)
- Changed H2 DB dependency from test to default scope.
- Updated README.md to reflect the idm model changes.

### 0.11.4
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.11.6
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.6.7

### 0.11.3
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.11.5
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.6.6

### 0.11.2
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.11.2
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.6.2
- Fixed XPack disable property without quotes that caused errors on some systems.
- Upgrade of Elasticsearch version to 7.16.2 (because of Log4Shell vulnerability fix)

### 0.11.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.11.1
- Disabled xpack security in elasticsearch to prevent ugly warnings from RestClient

### 0.11.0
- Upgrade to Java 11
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.11.0
- Upgrade to Spring Boot 2.6.1
- Upgrade to Elasticsearch 7.15.2
- Upgrade to Postgres 14
- Renamed the *-app module to *-work for both the Flowable Work and Flowable Engage templates (as Engage is mainly just an extension of work)
- Streamlined the naming in the entire template to represent the app module renaming.
  - Added additional package level 'work' for main and test classes
  - Renamed the Application class
  - Renamed the Test Classes
- Renamed the 'elasticsearch' service in docker-compose.yml to 'flowable-index'.
- Renamed docker-compose data volume 'data_es' to 'data_index'
- Fixed elasticsearch URL in flowable-engage service in docker-compose.yml
- Prepared possibility to run elasticless.
- Fixed some typos
- Added themeManagement allowdFeature to admin user definitions.
- Added tenantKey property to tenant setup

### 0.10.2
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.10.2

### 0.10.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.10.1
- Removed Flowable License bugfix
- Added impersonateUser feature to admin user definitions

### 0.10.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.10.0
- Upgrade Spring Boot to 2.5.2 to be in line with Flowable 3.10.0
- Set DB Store for Flowable License as default for PROD configuration
- Added sample settings.xml to project root
- Improved README documentation with information on Flowable Enterprise Maven repository access
- Added additional hyphen to index prefix

### 0.9.2
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.9.2
- Added customized Flowable Design and Control as submodules
- Updated docker-compose.yml also allows running vanilla work as a container
- Updated several properties
- Updated README.md for new Design/Control submodules
- Bugfixes

### 0.9.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.9.1

### 0.9.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.9.0
- Fixed password property for Flowable Control
- Removed MVCC from H2 DB String (true is default)
- Disabled Elasticsearch persistence for Flowable Metrics by default (re-enabled in application-prod.properties)

### 0.8.2
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.8.2
- Switched from yaml list to map format for environment properties in docker-compose

### 0.8.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.8.1
- Added cluster type property to Flowable Control config in docker-compose.yml (set to work)
- Improved docker-compose services layout

### 0.8.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.8.0
- Upgrade Spring Boot to 2.3.5.RELEASE to be in line with Flowable 3.8.0
- Added `info.env.name` property to application configuration to show stage label in UI
- Added `management.metrics.export.elastic.enabled=true` property to persist metrics in elasticsearch.

### 0.7.2
- Upgrade to FLowable 3.7.2
- Updated repositories for new Flowable Artifactory

### 0.7.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.7.1

### 0.7.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.7.0
- Upgrade Spring Boot to 2.3.1.RELEASE to be in line with Flowable 3.7.0
- Added Flowable Inspect as a dependency.
- Removed entrypoints from docker-compose definition for engage and design as the images now are based on executables jars.
- Updated configuration classes to be in sync with the product.
- Updated Postgres DB in docker-compose to 12.3

### 0.6.5
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.6.5
- Changed maven packaging from executable .war to executable .jar file as the executable .war might cause issues on 
  Kubernetes setups (file access delaying servlet initialization). 

### 0.6.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.6.1
- Disabled DB store for Flowable Design license (active by default since 3.6) to use mounted license file instead
- Updated user definitions with newest allowedFeatures

### 0.6.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.6.0
- Upgrade Spring Boot to 2.2.5.RELEASE to be in line with Flowable 3.6.0
- Updated documentation links in README.md for Flowable 3.6.0
- Removed JUnit Jupiter dependency as it is now part of spring-boot-starter-test

### 0.5.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.5.1
- Minor comment improvements in pom.xml

### 0.5.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.5.0
- Upgrade Spring Boot to 2.1.9.RELEASE to be in line with Flowable 3.5.0
- Maven repository config now points to Flowable Repo (instead of edrorasware).
- Added additional dash character to elasticsearch index prefix property to make the index names more readable.
- Added Info about Windows issues with the host.docker.internal URL.
- Upgrade Elasticsearch image in docker-compose to 7.5.0

### 0.4.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.4.1
- Removed unneeded static logger from SecurityActuatorConfiguration

### 0.4.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.4.0

### 0.3.0.1
- Upgrade Flowable Design Docker image to 3.3.0.1
- Configured Flowable Design to be able to get users/groups from Work/Engage
- Configured Flowable Control to allow user/group creation
- Minor .gitignore corrections

### 0.3.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.3.0
- Extended .gitignore with Visual Studio Code files
- Updated docu links
- Updated Docker image versions to 3.3.0
- Refactored Test classes

### 0.2.1
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.2.2

### 0.2.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.2.1

### 0.1.6
- Added static resource configuration class to configure browser caching for static resources.

### 0.1.5
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.1.2

### 0.1.4
- Added CHANGELOG.md file
- Changed bind mounts in docker-compose.yml to volumes to achieve better Docker for Windows compatibility - YOU WILL USE YOUR EXISTING DATA WITH THIS CHANGE!!
- Updated tenant and user definition files to reintroduce needed minimal setup (added `flowableUser` group)
- Updated README.md docu
- Re-added H2 dependency as in testing scope 

### 0.1.3
- added docker/data folder to gitignore
- Corrected contact filters
- Added property for actuator pretty json

### 0.1.2
- Removed frontend title
- Added workaround for FLW-523

### 0.1.1
- Updated allowed features
- Added contact filter to the template

### 0.1.0
- Upgrade to Flowable 3.1.0
- Docu update
- Added data bind mount directory

### 0.0.5
- Added additional documentation on how to setup infrastructure manually
- Reconfigured maven to create an executable war file
- Docu update

### 0.0.4
- Fixed docker images for design and control to stable version 3.0.0, updated docu accordingly
- Readded flowableAdministrator group and user-definition as these seem to be references directly
- Removed certain properties that are already set by default by the product
- Removed embedded profile

### 0.0.3
- Fixed wrong port for control in README.md
- Fixed license file mapping that caused write error for uploadCache directory
- Fixed flowable-design URL in README.md

### 0.0.2
- Added template specific tenant files and user definitions
- Fixed main and test class names
- Fixed pox description
- Added context root property for flowable control

### 0.0.1
- initial commit
